# Statistical Analysis of 4D Magnum

## What is 4-D Betting
[4-Digits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4-Digits) is a very popular type of lottery played in Singapore, and Malaysia, which allows punters to choose any number from 0000 to 9999. 

Then, a draw is conducted to pick 23 winning numbers split into 4 categories - 1st, 2nd, 3rd, Consolation & Special prize. The payout happens based on the category of prizes.

## What is in this repo
This has a statistical Analysis of distribution of results of a 1 specific Malaysian online 4D bettting site [4D Magnum](https://magnum4d.my/en/).


### Extracting Historical Data of 4D Winning Numbers 
This includes a script [ExtractMagum4DHistoryWithRetry.py](ExtractMagum4DHistoryWithRetry.py) to extract historical data extracted from [4D Magnum's website](https://magnum4d.my/en/winning-history) .

> [!WARNING]
> Use the script sparingly to scrape, as the APIs have limits on how many calls it can take.

The script sleeps & tries again if the timeouts happen, but if possible use the [data extracted on 07-Apr-2024](winning_history_4D_Magnum.csv).

### Basic Statistical Analysis
The analysis is restricted to checking if there are any outliners numbers which get picked often or if there is any preference for any subset of numbers.

The graphs generated by the [Jupyter Notebook](Magnum4D.ipynb) are interactive. The file uploaded does not have graphs as the increased the file size well above the 25MB file-size limit.

### Analysis of Magnum-Life
The probability of winning in [Magnum life game](https://magnum4d.my/en/magnum-life) is not very intuitive. Thus a [small python script](CalculateProbablitiesOfMagnumLife.py) can help.

## Statutary Warning
DO NOT do betting. I personally know of people who have messed up their life with additions to betting. 

Betting is nothing more than a tax on people who do not understand how Probability works, don't be that guy.
